So one common question is we went
through the way to install or
do styles through a link restyle sheet.
That it's hard to explain, but
it feels a little ugly, right?
And you can't really explain it, even
writing a style tag in the web component,
that feels a little ugly don't know why,
but it just doesn't feel right.
It's totally fine, it's valid HTML, but
then we looked at importing style sheets,
the new way.
And we finally figured it out
it took a little [LAUGH] behind
the scenes camera work,
but we figured it out.
And I'm gonna kinda walk you through how
it works as from the lit context, but
just what's going on with this thing
called adopted style sheets and
I put the crying emoji because it caused
me pain and suffering to figure this out.
But it's relatively new, so it's new to me
and happy mistakes, we're figuring it out.
So, import sheet,
we're importing a style sheet.
This is a constructed style sheet, we're
importing constructed style sheet from
our style sheet, our code pen,
this code pen actually.
But this style sheet right here is
being presented as a style sheet and
we're asserting its type equals CSS.
You can have other types,
type equals HTML type equals JSON,
JSON works in the browser
today HTML does not quite yet.
But then when we go down, see how we have
no styles in our in our custom alert?
Well, we can delete that
we're not using it.
But then in our connected callback,
the way lit wants you to do this.
You call super connected callback,
call the parent connected callback,
just make sure it runs how you expect,
but then this render route and
that's lit way to call a shadow route,
right?
That's where the content renders.
This render route adopted
style sheets equals brackets,
they're just regular brackets,
brackets sheet and
so that puts it into the adopts
the style sheet into the shadow root.
This won't work from here, but you can
use this without web components too,
it's a way you can use it
without web components, and
you can adopt them into
the document itself.
Nothing's gonna happen here but if we had,
that might be confusing because
it like would apply to the code pen and
stuff as well.
But you can adopt style
sheets in native HTML now.
That said this feature is
not in every browser yet
at the time of this talk and
so it may be a full year or
something before you're
seeing this everywhere you go